SETBAUD(1)                                              User Commands                                             SETBAUD(1)

NAME
       setbaud - set custom baud rates on a Linux terminal device

SYNOPSIS
       setbaud DEVICE [INRATE/OUTRATE] [OUTRATE]

DESCRIPTION
       The standard UNIX termios interface allows only a limited number of baud rates (9600, 384000, 115200, etc.) to be
       configured for a terminal device.  Many UARTs, like in USB to serial converters or SOCs, support a much greater range
       of baud rates, some of which are better suited for interfacing with microcontrollers or automation busses than those
       traditionally used on modem lines.

       Linux, via the termios2 interface, allows to set baud rates other than those standardized for terminals. This
       interface however is not accessible through standard tools.

       This tool allows to set arbitrary baud rates for the input and output lines on a terminal device under Linux. Which
       combinations of rates at what accuracy are actually supported depends on the individual hardware and kernel drivers
       used.

       In addition to setting the baud rate, the terminal is configured to raw mode (no echoing, no special character
       handling, etc.) as with cfmakeraw().  For adjusting terminal settings like parity and stop bits refer to stty(1).

       DEVICE specifies the path to the terminal device to be configured.

       INRATE and OUTRATE specify the rates for the input and output lines respectively, in bauds per second.
       If only one rate is specified, this will be used for both directions.

       In case no rate is specified, the current baud settings of the device will be printed to standard error without any
       changes being made to the terminal configuration.

EXAMPLES
       Print the currently set input and output rates of the first USB to serial interface to standard error:

              setbaud /dev/ttyUSB0

       Set the input and output rate on the first USB to serial interface to 125kbaud/s:

              setbaud /dev/ttyUSB0 125000

       Set 125kbaud/s for input and 250kbaud/s for output on the first USB to serial interface:

              setbaud /dev/ttyUSB0 125000 250000

BUGS
       Note that unsupported settings may lead to devices assuming a different than the desired configuration without
       reporting an error.

       In the output of stty(1), non-standard rates are reported as 0 baud.

AUTHOR
       Written by Johannes Schmitz

SOURCE
       git://github.com/jonny112/setbaud.git

SEE ALSO
       stty(1) termios(3)

Linux                                                  September 2021                                             SETBAUD(1)
